Now let's have a look at the RoutePlanner header file route_planner.h.
Here we have the RoutePlanner class definition.
Begins with the constructor RoutePlanner which
takes a RouteModel and then coordinate start x,
start y, end x,
and end y for the starting and ending x, y coordinates.
Next there is a GetDistance method which
returns the distance that is stored here as a private variable in the model.
That distance will be used to store the complete distance
of the path that you find from starting point to end point.
After that is the declaration of the AStarSearch method.
Then down below that on line 17 through 21 are the AddNeighbors, CalculateHValue,
constructFinaPath, and NextNode methods
which will all be used to conduct the AStarSearch.
Then down at the very bottom there are private variables for the open list.
So it's a vector of node pointers for the open_list.
Then a pointer to the start_node,
pointer to the end_node,
the distance which was mentioned before,
and then the RouteModel that we're using.
Now let's have a look at route_planner.cpp.
Route_planner.cpp starts with the definition of the class constructor.
In this constructor we take the start x,
start y, end x,
and end y coordinates and multiply them by 0.01 to convert them to percentages.
Start x, start y, end x,
and end y are given by the user input in the range 0-100.
We want to multiply them to convert them to
percentages to be able to use them in m_Model.FindClosestNode.
Your first to-do in this file is to use
m_Model.FindClosestNode to find the closest nodes to the starting and ending coordinates.
You want to store these nodes in
the route planner as a start node and end node attributes.
Your next to-do is to implement the CalculateHValue method.
You can use the distance functions for nodes to determine
the distance from the node to the end node and that should give you the h value.
To-do four is to complete the AddNeighbors method.
There are instructions here for doing that.
To-do five is to complete the next node method
which will sort the open_list and return the next node.
To-do six is to complete
the construct final path method which will return
the final path found from your AStarSearch.
There's some code already written for you in the ConstructFinalPath method.
We start by setting distance equal to zero
and creating a vector of nodes called the path_found.
When you call ConstructFinalPath,
it should be called with the current node as the final node in the search.
Your job is to iterate through the parents of each node.
So once you have the final node,
you will look for the parent of that node,
and then the parent of that node,
and then the parent of the node before that.
Each node you find you'll record in path_pound.
If you're pushing these nodes onto the back path_found,
then when you end,
the vector of nodes will be in the wrong order so
you'll need to reverse the vector before you return it.
Afterwards on line 66,
distance is multiplied by model metric scale.
So at each iteration of this searching for the parent of
the nodes you're recording the distance from each node,
you're adding to the distance here.
When you're done, we want to multiply by this value metric scale which
converts the scale of these nodes
into meters that we can display at the end of the program.
To-do seven is to write the AStarSearch algorithm.
So here you will implement the while loop that loops as long
as the open list is not empty and you'll use all of the methods from above.